Add EIP-5164: Cross-Chain Execution (#5164)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-5164.md

## Specification

The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

This specification allows contracts on one chain to send messages to contracts on another chain. There are two key interfaces that needs to be implemented:

- `CrossChainRelayer`
- `CrossChainExecutor`

The `CrossChainRelayer` lives on the origin chain. Users can share a single `CrossChainRelayer` or deploy their own.

The `CrossChainExecutor` lives on the destination chain and executes relayed calls. Users can share a single `CrossChainExecutor` or deploy their own.

### CrossChainRelayer

The `CrossChainRelayer` lives on the chain from which messages are sent. The Relayer's job is to broadcast the messages through a transport layer.

#### Methods

**relayCalls**

> MUST emit the `RelayedCalls` event when successfully called.
> 
> MUST increment a `nonce` so that each batch of calls can be uniquely identified.
> 
> MAY require payment. Some bridges may require payment in the native currency, so the function is payable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`CrossChainRelayer`s MUST emit the `RelayedCalls` event when successfully called.

`CrossChainRelayer`s MUST increment a `nonce` so that each batch of calls can be uniquely identified.

`CrossChainRelayer`s MAY require payment.
```
The "some bridges may require payment" should be included in the rationale.

Reviewer 2: Included in this commit: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/5164/commits/fcd8e639ca11afad9f9189395ac1c427d1bdffc1

```solidity
struct Call {
  address target;
  bytes data;
}

interface CrossChainRelayer {
    function relayCalls(Call[] calldata calls, uint256 gasLimit) external payable;
}
```

```yaml
- name: relayCalls
  type: function
  stateMutability: payable
  inputs:
    - name: calls
      type: Call[]
    - name: gasLimit
      type: uint256
```

#### Events

**RelayedCalls**

> MUST be emitted by the `CrossChainRelayer` when `relayCalls` is called.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `RelayedCalls` event MUST be emitted by the `CrossChainRelayer` when `relayCalls` is called.
```

```solidity
interface CrossChainRelayer {
  event RelayedCalls(
      uint256 indexed nonce,
      address indexed sender,
      CrossChainExecutor indexed executor,
      Call[] calls,
      uint256 gasLimit
  );
}
```

```yaml
- name: RelayedCalls
  type: event
  inputs:
    - name: nonce
      indexed: true
      type: uint256
    - name: sender
      indexed: true
      type: address
    - name: executor
      indexed: true
      type: address
    - name: calls
      type: Call[]
    - name: gasLimit
      type: uint256
```

#### Error handling

**GasLimitTooHigh**

> MAY revert if the `gasLimit` passed to `relayCalls` is higher than the maximum gas limit accepted by the bridge being used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`CrossChainRelayer`s MAY revert with `GasLimitTooHigh` if the `gasLimit` passed to `relayCalls` is higher than the maximum gas limit accepted by the bridge being used.
```

```solidity
interface CrossChainRelayer {
  error GasLimitTooHigh(
    uint256 gasLimit,
    uint256 maxGasLimit
  );
}
```

### CrossChainExecutor

The `CrossChainExecutor` executes relayed calls. Developers must implement a `CrossChainExecutor` in order to execute messages on the receiving chain.

#### Authentication

> SHOULD authenticate that the call has been performed by the bridge transport layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`CrossChainRelayer`s SHOULD authenticate that the call has been performed by the bridge transport layer.
```

> SHOULD follow [EIP-2771](./eip-2771.md) and append the address of the Transaction Signer (20 bytes of data) on the origin chain to the end of the call data being executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`CrossChainRelayer`s SHOULD use [EIP-2771](./eip-2771.md) for authentication and append the address of the Transaction Signer (20 bytes of data) on the origin chain to the end of the call data being executed.
```

#### Error handling

**CallFailure**

> SHOULD revert if a call fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`CrossChainRelayer`s SHOULD revert with `CallFailure` if a call fails.
```

```solidity
interface CrossChainExecutor {
  error CallFailure(
    Call call,
    bytes errorData
  );
}
```

#### Events

**ExecutedCalls**

> MUST be emitted once calls have been executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ExecutedCalls` MUST be emitted once calls have been executed.
```

    CrossChainRelayer indexed relayer,
    uint256 indexed nonce,
    address indexed caller
  );
}
```

```yaml
- name: ExecutedCalls
  type: event
  inputs:
    - name: relayer
      indexed: true
      type: CrossChainRelayer
    - name: nonce
      indexed: true
      type: uint256
    - name: caller
      indexed: true
      type: address
```

### ExecutorAware

The `ExecutorAware` interface follows [EIP-2771](./eip-2771.md) and allows applications to verify where the call originated from.

## Rationale

The Relayer address is passed to the executor so that the execution can easily be traced by a client using the relayer address and nonce. A third party just needs to be aware of a list of Relayers and a list of Executors and can trace execution across all of them.

Calls are relayed in batches because it is such a common action. Rather than have implementors take different approaches to encoding multiple calls into the `data` portion, this spec includes call batching to take away any guess work.

## Backwards Compatibility

This specification is compatible with existing governance systems as it offers simple cross-chain execution.

## Security Considerations

> Different bridges have wildly different trust profiles, so it's important that the user understands that bridge security will depend on the implementation being used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bridge trust profiles are variable, so users must understand that bridge security depends on the implementation.
```

title: Cross-Chain Execution
description: Defines an interface that supports execution across EVM networks.
author: Brendan Asselstine (@asselstine), Pierrick Turelier (@PierrickGT), Anna Carroll (@anna-carroll), Hadrien Croubois (@Amxx), Nam Chu Hoai (@nambrot), Georgios (@geogons), Theo Gonella (@mintcloud), Rafael Solari (@rsolari), Auryn Macmillan (@auryn-macmillan), Nathan Ginnever (@nginnever)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-5164-cross-chain-execution/9658
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-06-14
---

## Abstract

This specification defines a cross-chain execution interface for EVM-based blockchains. Developers will be able to have contracts call contracts on other chains. There are two parts to this spec: the "sending" interface and the "executing" interface. The "sending" interface specifies the interface to send a call to another chain; this interface must be implemented by bridges. The "executing" interface must be implemented by the application; it is an interface for executing cross-chain calls. This specification is agnostic of the bridge implementation; it simply standardizes the call interfaces.

## Motivation

> Many Ethereum protocols need to coordinate state changes across multiple EVM-based blockchains. These chains often have native or third-party bridges that allow Ethereum contracts to execute code. However, bridges have different APIs so bridge integrations are bespoke.

Reviewer: Bespoke is the wrong word here I think.

Reviewer 2: Replaced with the word `custom` in this commit: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/5164/commits/a478089e0a4e04f9d0fcaff2b5c95169bc5af23c#diff-41efe0617f861cc7330b025ecc86d55fe777d3c503208d83dca04258de4f5f41R19

> Bridge technology is improving rapidly, and there are multiple bridges to choose from. Each one affords different properties; with varying degrees of security, speed, and control.

Reviewer: I think that the first sentence here is redundant. The second sentence would do better in the previous paragraph.

Reviewer 2: Removed in this commit: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/5164/commits/a478089e0a4e04f9d0fcaff2b5c95169bc5af23c#diff-41efe0617f861cc7330b025ecc86d55fe777d3c503208d83dca04258de4f5f41R19

> By standardizing a cross-chain execution interface, we can cleanly separate the transport layer from the application layer. Cross-chain execution becomes another composable piece with which the Ethereum ecosystem can build shared infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I think this is mostly redundant. Composability is in the motivation by default.

Reviewer 2: Removed in this commit: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/5164/commits/a478089e0a4e04f9d0fcaff2b5c95169bc5af23c#diff-41efe0617f861cc7330b025ecc86d55fe777d3c503208d83dca04258de4f5f41R19

## Specification

The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

This specification allows contracts on one chain to send messages to contracts on another chain. There are two key interfaces that needs to be implemented:

> - CrossChainRelayer
> - CrossChainExecutor

Reviewer: Stylistically, should these be in code blocks?
```suggestion
- `CrossChainRelayer`
- `CrossChainExecutor`
```

Reviewer 2: Yes, fixed in this commit: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/5164/commits/a478089e0a4e04f9d0fcaff2b5c95169bc5af23c#diff-41efe0617f861cc7330b025ecc86d55fe777d3c503208d83dca04258de4f5f41R27

The `CrossChainRelayer` lives on the origin chain. Users can share a single `CrossChainRelayer` or deploy their own.

The `CrossChainExecutor` lives on the destination chain and executes relayed calls. Users can share a single `CrossChainExecutor` or deploy their own.

> ### CrossChainRelayer

Reviewer: Should this be in code blocks?
```suggestion
### `CrossChainRelayer`
```

Reviewer 2: It's a title, so it doesn't really make sense to put it in code blocks.

The `CrossChainRelayer` lives on the chain from which messages are sent. The Relayer's job is to broadcast the messages through a transport layer.

#### Methods

**relayCalls**

MUST emit the `RelayedCalls` event when successfully called.

MUST increment a `nonce` so that each batch of calls can be uniquely identified.

> MAY require payment. Some bridges may require payment in the native currency, so the function is payable.

Reviewer: These are incomplete sentences. Please fix this.

```solidity
struct Call {
  address target;
  bytes data;
}

interface CrossChainRelayer {
    function relayCalls(CrossChainExecutor executor, Call[] calldata calls, uint256 gasLimit) external payable;
}
```

```yaml
- name: relayCalls
  type: function
  stateMutability: payable
  inputs:
    - name: executor
      type: CrossChainExecutor
    - name: calls
      type: Call[]
    - name: gasLimit
      type: uint256
```

#### Events

**RelayedCalls**

> MUST be emitted by the `CrossChainRelayer` when `relayCalls` is called.

Reviewer: This is an incomplete sentence. Please fix this.

```solidity
interface CrossChainRelayer {
  event RelayedCalls(
      uint256 indexed nonce,
      address indexed sender,
      CrossChainExecutor indexed executor,
      Call[] calls,
      uint256 gasLimit
  );
}
```

```yaml
- name: RelayedCalls
  type: event
  inputs:
    - name: nonce
      indexed: true
      type: uint256
    - name: sender
      indexed: true
      type: address
    - name: executor
      indexed: true
      type: address
    - name: calls
      type: Call[]
    - name: gasLimit
      type: uint256
```

#### Error handling

**GasLimitTooHigh**

> MAY revert if the `gasLimit` passed to `relayCalls` is higher than the maximum gas limit accepted by the bridge being used.

Reviewer: This is an incomplete sentence. Please fix this.

```solidity
interface CrossChainRelayer {
  error GasLimitTooHigh(
    uint256 gasLimit,
    uint256 maxGasLimit
  );
}
```

> ### CrossChainExecutor

Reviewer: Again, I suggest this should be in code blocks.
```suggestion
### `CrossChainExecutor`
```

Reviewer 2: Same than above, I don't think a title should be in code blocks.

The `CrossChainExecutor` executes relayed calls. Developers must implement a `CrossChainExecutor` in order to execute messages on the receiving chain.

#### Authentication

SHOULD authenticate that the call has been performed by the bridge transport layer.

> SHOULD follow [EIP-2771](./eip-2771.md) and append the address of the Transaction Signer (20 bytes of data) on the origin chain to the end of the call data being executed.

Reviewer: These are incomplete sentences. Please fix this.

Reviewer 2: Why are these sentences incomplete? Which format am I supposed to follow?

Reviewer: These are sentence fragments; they are missing a subject. I'll fix them for you.

Reviewer 2: Ah ok thanks. I was mainly following the style of other EIPs.

#### Error handling

**CallFailure**

> SHOULD revert if a call fails.

Reviewer: This is an incomplete sentence. Please fix this.

```solidity
interface CrossChainExecutor {
  error CallFailure(
    Call call,
    bytes errorData
  );
}
```

#### Events

**ExecutedCalls**

> MUST be emitted once calls have been executed.

Reviewer: This is an incomplete sentence. Please fix this.

```solidity
interface CrossChainExecutor {
  event ExecutedCalls(
    CrossChainRelayer indexed relayer,
    uint256 indexed nonce,
    address indexed caller
  );
}
```

```yaml
- name: ExecutedCalls
  type: event
  inputs:
    - name: relayer
      indexed: true
      type: CrossChainRelayer
    - name: nonce
      indexed: true
      type: uint256
    - name: caller
      indexed: true
      type: address
```

### ExecutorAware

> The `ExecutorAware` follows [EIP-2771](./eip-2771.md) and allows applications to verify where the call originated from.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ExecutorAware` interface follows [EIP-2771](./eip-2771.md) and allows applications to verify where the call originated from.
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in this commit: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/5164/commits/a478089e0a4e04f9d0fcaff2b5c95169bc5af23c#diff-41efe0617f861cc7330b025ecc86d55fe777d3c503208d83dca04258de4f5f41R180

> The `ExecutorAware` follows [EIP-2771](./eip-2771.md) and allows developers that use EIP-5164 to verify where the call originated from.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ExecutorAware` follows [EIP-2771](./eip-2771.md) and allows applications to verify where the call originated from.
```

## Rationale

> There are some notable design decisions worth talking about:
> 
> - Relayer and nonce are passed to the Executor
> - Calls are relayed in batches
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
It is assumed that the reader knows what the rationale section covers.

Reviewer 2: Removed in this commit: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/5164/commits/a478089e0a4e04f9d0fcaff2b5c95169bc5af23c#diff-41efe0617f861cc7330b025ecc86d55fe777d3c503208d83dca04258de4f5f41L190

---
eip: 5164
title: Cross-Chain Execution
description: This specification defines an interface that supports execution across EVM networks.
author: Brendan Asselstine (@asselstine), Anna Carroll (@anna-carroll), Hadrien Croubois (@Amxx), Nam Chu Hoai (@nambrot), Georgios (@geogons), Theo Gonella (@mintcloud), Rafael Solari (@rsolari), Auryn Macmillan (@auryn-macmillan), Nathan Ginnever (@nginnever)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-5164-cross-chain-execution/9658
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-06-14
---

## Abstract

This specification defines a cross-chain execution interface for EVM-based blockchains. Users of this spec will be able to have contracts on one chain call contracts on another chain. The specification is agnostic of the transport layer, so that implementations can choose how they relay the execution.

> 

Author: I'm getting ready to turn my attention back to this. I will add more background!

By standardizing a cross-chain execution interface, we can cleanly separate the transport layer from the application layer. Cross-chain execution becomes another composable piece with which the Ethereum ecosystem can build shared infrastructure.

## Specification

This specification allows contracts on one chain to send messages to contracts on another chain. There are two key contracts:

- CrossChainRelayer
- CrossChainReceiver

The `CrossChainRelayer` lives on the origin chain. Users can share a single `CrossChainRelayer` or deploy their own.

The `CrossChainReceiver` lives on the destination chain and receives relayed calls.

The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

### CrossChainRelayer

The `CrossChainRelayer` lives on the chain from which messages are sent. The Relayer's job is to broadcast the messages through a transport layer.

#### Methods

**relayCalls**

MUST emit the `Relayed` event when successfully called.

MUST increment a `nonce` so that each batch of calls can be uniquely identified.

> MAY require payment.

Reviewer 3: I think it's saying someone implementing the call would decide whether the relayed call needs to require payment

> MAY require payment.

Reviewer: Again, implementers should not have to "think" that. It should be explicitly stated.

```solidity
struct Call {
  address target;
  bytes data;
  uint value;
  uint gas;
}

interface CrossChainRelayer {
    function relayCalls(CrossChainReceiver receiver, Call[] calldata calls) external payable;
}
```

```yaml
- name: relayCalls
  type: function
  stateMutability: payable
  inputs: 
    - name: receiver
      type: CrossChainReceiver
    - name: calls
      type: Call[]
```

#### Events

**RelayedCalls**

MUST be emitted by the `CrossChainRelayer` when `relayCalls` is called.

```solidity
interface CrossChainRelayer {
  event RelayedCalls(
      CrossChainRelayer indexed relayer,
      uint256 indexed nonce,
      address sender,
      CrossChainReceiver indexed receiver,
      Call[] calls
  );
}
```

```yaml
- name: RelayedCalls
  type: event
  inputs:
    - name: relayer
      indexed: true
      type: CrossChainRelayer
    - name: nonce
      indexed: true
      type: uint256
    - name: sender
      type: address
    - name: receiver
      indexed: true
      type: address
    - name: calls
      type: Call[]
```

### CrossChainReceiver

> The `CrossChainReceiver` contract executes call batches. Developers must implement a `CrossChainReceiver` in order to receive messages from an ERC-5164 compatible bridge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `CrossChainReceiver` contract executes call batches. Developers must implement a `CrossChainReceiver` in order to receive messages from a bridge compatible with this EIP.
```
```suggestion
The `CrossChainReceiver` contract executes call batches. Developers must implement a `CrossChainReceiver` in order to receive messages from an ERC-5164 compatible bridge.
```

---
eip: 5164
title: Cross-Chain Execution

> description: This specification defines an interface that supports execution across EVM networks.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
description: Defines an interface that supports execution across EVM networks.
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in this commit: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/5164/commits/da5558d00a3b5ab768df5b7d7336d92bd1f1c085#diff-41efe0617f861cc7330b025ecc86d55fe777d3c503208d83dca04258de4f5f41R4

> author: Brendan Asselstine (@asselstine), Anna Carroll (@anna-carroll), Hadrien Croubois (@Amxx), Nam Chu Hoai (@nambrot), Georgios (@geogons), Theo Gonella (@mintcloud), Rafael Solari (@rsolari), Auryn Macmillan (@auryn-macmillan), Nathan Ginnever (@nginnever)

Reviewer 5: @Pandapip1 @SamWilsn is it technically feasible to exclude author line from spell checking, I wonder?

Reviewer: Technically... not as of right now. CodeSpell has been temporarily bypassed though, so I guess this is good to be merged.

discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-5164-cross-chain-execution/9658
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-06-14
---

## Abstract

> This specification defines a cross-chain execution interface for EVM-based blockchains. Developers will be able to have contracts call contracts on other chains. There are two parts to this spec: the "sending" interface and the "receiving" interface. The "sending" interface specifies the interface to send a call to another chain; this interface must be implemented by bridges. The "receiving" interface must be implemented by the developer; it is an interface for receiving cross-chain calls. This specification is agnostic of the bridge implementation; it simply standardizes the call interfaces.

Reviewer 4: Swapped "developers" for "applications". I suspect bridges also have developers :wink: 

```suggestion
This specification defines a cross-chain execution interface for EVM-based blockchains. Developers will be able to have contracts call contracts on other chains. There are two parts to this spec: the "sending" interface and the "receiving" interface. The "sending" interface specifies the interface to send a call to another chain; this interface must be implemented by bridges. The "receiving" interface must be implemented by the application; it is an interface for receiving cross-chain calls. This specification is agnostic of the bridge implementation; it simply standardizes the call interfaces.
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in this commit: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/5164/commits/da5558d00a3b5ab768df5b7d7336d92bd1f1c085#diff-41efe0617f861cc7330b025ecc86d55fe777d3c503208d83dca04258de4f5f41R15

## Motivation

Many Ethereum protocols need to coordinate state changes across multiple EVM-based blockchains. These chains often have native or third-party bridges that allow Ethereum contracts to execute code. However, bridges have different APIs so bridge integrations are bespoke.

Bridge technology is improving rapidly, and there are multiple bridges to choose from. Each one affords different properties; with varying degrees of security, speed, and control.

By standardizing a cross-chain execution interface, we can cleanly separate the transport layer from the application layer. Cross-chain execution becomes another composable piece with which the Ethereum ecosystem can build shared infrastructure.

## Specification

> This specification allows contracts on one chain to send messages to contracts on another chain. There are two key contracts:

Reviewer 4: Looks like `CrossChainRelayer` and `CrossChainReceiver` are interfaces, not contracts?

```suggestion
This specification allows contracts on one chain to send messages to contracts on another chain. There are two interfaces need to be implemented:
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed in this commit: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/5164/commits/772f1c7b03c55496f2f724073e8ebb227e154a5c#diff-41efe0617f861cc7330b025ecc86d55fe777d3c503208d83dca04258de4f5f41R29

- CrossChainRelayer
- CrossChainReceiver

The `CrossChainRelayer` lives on the origin chain. Users can share a single `CrossChainRelayer` or deploy their own.

> The `CrossChainReceiver` lives on the destination chain and receives relayed calls.

Reviewer 4: `CrossChainRelayer` describes who is responsible for deploying it (users). Who is responsible for deploying `CrossChainReceiver`?

Reviewer 2: The `CrossChainReceiver` interface has been renamed `CrossChainExecutor`.
To receive and execute messages on the receiving chain, users can deploy their own `CrossChainExecutor` or share a single one.

We have modified the specification of this interface and users need to emit the `ExecutedCalls` event once a Call has been executed but they don't need to implement a `receiveCalls` function to receive calls.
We have also added an optional `ExecutorAware` interface that would follow EIP-2771 and allow users to authenticate/verify where the call originated from.

This way, users are not constrained in the way they want to receive and execute calls.

For example, a user may use a pre-existing `CrossChainExecutor` contract to receive calls that would then be executed and call a function on an `ExecutorAware` contract. Using EIP-2771, they can authenticate the call and verify that it originated from the `CrossChainExecutor` contract they decided to use.
But it would also be possible for the user to only deploy their own `CrossChainExecutor` contract and this contract would receive calls and execute them but they wouldn't call an `ExecutorAware` contract and would instead call a function in the `CrossChainExecutor` contract.

Reviewer 2: I've explained who needs to deploy a `CrossChainExecutor` contract in this commit: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/5164/commits/772f1c7b03c55496f2f724073e8ebb227e154a5c#diff-41efe0617f861cc7330b025ecc86d55fe777d3c503208d83dca04258de4f5f41R36

> The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.

Reviewer 4: Would you mind moving this paragraph to the top of the specification section?

Reviewer 2: Moved in this commit: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/5164/commits/da5558d00a3b5ab768df5b7d7336d92bd1f1c085#diff-41efe0617f861cc7330b025ecc86d55fe777d3c503208d83dca04258de4f5f41R27

### CrossChainRelayer

The `CrossChainRelayer` lives on the chain from which messages are sent. The Relayer's job is to broadcast the messages through a transport layer.

#### Methods

**relayCalls**

> MUST emit the `Relayed` event when successfully called.

Reviewer 2: Should be `RelayedCalls` if we want the same naming than in the Solidity code below.

```suggestion
MUST emit the `RelayedCalls` event when successfully called.
```

MUST increment a `nonce` so that each batch of calls can be uniquely identified.

MAY require payment. Some bridges may require payment in the native currency, so the function is payable.

Implementations MUST relay the Calls by calling the `receiveCalls` function on the `CrossChainReceiver` on the receiving chain with the call data.

```solidity
struct Call {
  address target;
  bytes data;

>   uint value;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  uint256 value;
```

Reviewer 2: It should also be called `gasLimit` if this is the amount of gas require to execute the Call on the receiving chain.

}

interface CrossChainRelayer {
    function relayCalls(CrossChainReceiver receiver, Call[] calldata calls, uint256 gas) external payable;
}
```

```yaml
- name: relayCalls
  type: function
  stateMutability: payable
  inputs: 
    - name: receiver
      type: CrossChainReceiver
    - name: calls
      type: Call[]

>     - name: gas

Reviewer 2: The `gas` parameter should be explained in this EIP, it is not really clear what this parameter is about.

      type: uint256
```

#### Events

**RelayedCalls**

MUST be emitted by the `CrossChainRelayer` when `relayCalls` is called.

```solidity
interface CrossChainRelayer {
  event RelayedCalls(
      uint256 indexed nonce,
      address indexed sender,
      CrossChainReceiver indexed receiver,
      Call[] calls,

>       uint256 gas

Reviewer 2: Is `gas` here the total amount of gas consumed by the `calls` or is it the gas or gasLimit per call?
If this is per call, it should be an array: `uint256[] gas`

---
eip: 5164
title: Cross-Chain Execution
description: This specification defines an interface that supports execution across EVM networks.
author: Brendan Asselstine (@asselstine), Anna Carroll (@anna-carroll), Hadrien Croubois (@Amxx), Theo Gonella (@mintcloud), Rafael Solari (@rsolari), Auryn Macmillan (@auryn-macmillan), Nathan Ginnever (@nginnever)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-5164-cross-chain-execution/9658
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-06-14
---

> # EIP-5164: Cross-Chain Execution
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Bridge technology is improving rapidly, and there are multiple bridges to choose from. Each one affords different properties; with varying degrees of security, speed, and control.

By standardizing a cross-chain execution interface, we can cleanly separate the transport layer from the application layer. Cross-chain execution becomes another composable piece with which the Ethereum ecosystem can build shared infrastructure.

## Specification

This specification allows contracts on one chain to send messages to contracts on another chain. There are two key contracts:

- CrossChainRelayer
- CrossChainReceiver

The `CrossChainRelayer` lives on the origin chain. Messages sent to this contract are relayed to CrossChainReceivers on other chains.

The `CrossChainReceiver` lives on the destination chain. The receiver is bound to a CrossChainRelayer and executes any messages sent by the relayer.

When a user wishes to send cross-chain messages, they will create a CrossChainRelayer and a CrossChainReceiver.

> The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2119).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.
```

No external links (even for RFCs)

Author: 👍

### CrossChainRelayer

The `CrossChainRelayer` lives on the chain from which messages are sent. The Relayer's job is to broadcast the messages through a transport layer.

#### Methods

**relayCalls**

MUST emit the `Relayed` event when successfully called.

MUST increment a `nonce` so that each batch of calls can be uniquely identified.

```solidity
struct Call {
  address target;
  bytes data;
  uint value;
}

interface CrossChainRelayer {
    function relayCalls(Call[] calldata calls) external;
}
```

```yaml
- name: relayCalls
  type: function
  stateMutability: nonpayable
  inputs: 
    - name: calls
      type: Call[]
```

#### Events

**Relayed**

> MUST be emitted when a CrossChainRelayer relays calls.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
MUST be emitted when a `CrossChainRelayer` relays calls.
```

Author: 👍

```solidity
interface CrossChainRelayer {
  event Relayed(
      uint256 indexed nonce,
      Call[] calls
  );
}
```

```yaml
- name: Relayed
  type: event
  inputs:
    - name: nonce
      indexed: true
      type: uint256
    - name: calls
      type: Call[]
```

> ### CrossChainReceiver
> 
> The `CrossChainReceiver` contract executes messages sent by a `CrossChainRelayer`. The CrossChainReceiver must execute calls that are relayed by the bound CrossChainRelayer.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### CrossChainReceiver

The `CrossChainReceiver` contract executes messages sent by a `CrossChainRelayer`. The `CrossChainReceiver` must execute calls that are relayed by the bound `CrossChainRelayer`.
```

Author: 👍

#### Methods

**relayer**

> Returns the address of the relayer that this receiver is bound to.

Reviewer 4: Above you capitalized Relayer, and here it's lowercase. Please choose a consistent capitalization throughout the document.

The message receiver always authenticates the sender. This is the case whether contracts live on the same chain or across chains. That's why the relayer is unaware of the receiver, but the receiver is aware of the relayer. This approach is the most compatible with transport layers (namely Nomad!) and affords the ability to broadcast messages to multiple receivers.

Calls are relayed in batches because it is such a common action. Rather than have implementors take different approaches to encoding multiple calls into the `data` portion, this spec includes call batching to take away any guess work.

The receiver makes the relayer address and chainId available on-chain, and emits events when the Relayer is initialized or set. This makes it easy to trace cross-chain execution. Thanks to the events and nonce, an indexer can know exactly who the relayer and receiver were in the past and trace the execution of a call batch. With the on-chain accessor, external contracts can check to see who the current relayer is.

## Backwards Compatibility

This specification is compatible with existing governance systems as it offers simple cross-chain execution.

> 

Reviewer: Missing security considerations section (can be as simple as a needs discussion).

Author: 👍

Reviewer 6: ###Hi it will be reviewed
